[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Today on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired special agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO,
ET-related intelligence.
Today we're talking about a UFO
and a nuclear weapons incident.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>> Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>> What is Coyote Canyon?
And what actually happened
in September of 1980?
>> Well, Coyote Canyon is a area
on the eastern side of Kirtland
Air Force Base.
It houses a test range, both
classified and unclassified
test range, and also,
during that time period,
housed the largest
nuclear weapons
storage area in the world.
It was called Manzano Base.
Back in the '50s and early
'60s, the United States military
and the Atomic Energy
Commission built structures
inside that mountain
to manufacture
nuclear weapons, both the
fission weapon and the fusion
weapons.
All fission and fusion weapons
during that time period,
actually from the late '40s
all the way up to the '70s,
were manufactured
inside Manzano Base,
and that's where
they housed them
after they were put together.
Before the manufacturing process
moved to Pantex in Texas,
everything was done at Manzano.
But in 1980, Coyote Canyon
was a classified testing area.
And, of course, Manzano Base
was located in that area.
>> Right, exactly.
Which brings us to
the next question,
who was involved of this
investigation of this event?
>> How it started was security
police guarded Manzano Base.
They had perimeter
guards all over the base.
I think each shift had
something like 70 to 80 security
policemen guarding
inside Manzano.
Plus, there's alarm structures
all over Manzano Base.
>> Pressure sensors, six
different fences with very high
voltage, and some
amazingly mean K-9 units.
>> Exactly.
And the K-9s patrolled within
a certain area of the fence.
And as you said, the entire
second layer of the fence
was electrified.
But getting back to
the original story,
a security police were
on duty one night,
and he saw this light
moving into the Canyon.
And it kept moving
around inside the Canyon
area, which would have
been east of them,
the east side of Manzano.
When the security policeman
observed this light
moving in and out
of the Canyon area,
he immediately notified
their supervisor,
who notified central
security control.
Central security control
controlled the security police
force.
The supervisor asked CSC
to contact Sandia National
Laboratories, because Sandia
had some bunkers in that area,
which would have
been outside Manzano,
and asked Sandia's
control center to contact
their security forces,
which patrols that area,
and determine whether they saw
what the security police were
seeing.
Sandia National Laboratories
was on Kirtland Air Force Base.
Back in the '80s, they had,
I think, 80 buildings all
over the eastern
side of the base,
including in Coyote Canyon.
They had classified storage
areas and plus classified
testing areas.
And what Sandia did--
a side note-- is they
tested nuclear weapons
out there, non-nuclear
testing of nuclear weapons,
dropping them from a distance,
testing the outer structures
of them, testing the
components, whether they
would break if they were
dropped from some distance.
So that testing was done
out in Coyote Canyon,
and that's why it was called
a classified testing area.
And not only did
Sandia test out there,
but Los Alamos also
had a testing site
out there along with the Air
Force weapons laboratory, which
at that time was on Kirtland.
And finally, the
National Security Agency
had a highly
classified location,
which was built into
a mountain out there.
And this isn't
classified anymore.
But they were doing laser
testing inside this mountain.
The mountain, I
think, was something
like a half a mile long inside.
I believe you might
know more about that.
Anyways, the security
policemen continued watching
this light moving in and out.
Sandia security control told
central security control
that they had a security
guard in the area,
and he was going to
check things out.
So we jumped to
the security guard.
Sandia National security have
their own security force.
And it's a large force, almost
exclusively retired military,
either retired
military policemen,
retired military infantry
people, or even special forces,
almost all of them.
>> And different specialties
training as well,
compared to the regular MP, SP.
>> Exactly.
And they were highly trained.
They had to go through
an extensive program.
They weren't just a security
guard you hire off the street.
They had to go through--
because they were controlling
and guarding restricted
data areas, which
meant nuclear materials.
Maybe not necessarily
nuclear weapons,
but materials that went
inside the nuclear weapons.
They had nuclear pit
storage areas out there.
They had nuclear component areas
that were stored out there.
So this particular bunker
that this incident happened in
had some nuclear material in it.
Plus, it was an
experimental bunker.
The way the bunkers
before was built,
it's a huge concrete bunker,
blast doors on the front.
And they would store the
nuclear weapons inside.
This particular bunker, the
way they did it was they
had a platform inside
with an elevator
that went down 60 feet.
So they'd put the nuclear
weapon on this platform
and then dropped it down
60 feet under this bunker.
So if a terrorist was to
penetrate this bunker,
nuclear weapon wasn't there.
It was 60 feet underground.
So at this particular
time, 1980,
they had, nuclear material
stored in that bunker.
So it was alarmed.
As this one Sandia security
guard was patrolling out there,
he saw this light too.
And I interviewed him
extensively later.
And he saw this light,
and he watched it.
And he thought, well, it
has to be a helicopter.
Because the 1550th air
crew test and training
wing, which was
an Air Force unit,
also conducted
training out there
of different types
of helicopters,
Jolly Green Giant helicopters,
HH-53 helicopters, H-1s.
But he wasn't notified
that there was going
to be any testing out there.
And this was late at night.
So he watched this
light from a distance.
And he hadn't approached
the bunker yet.
He was some distance
from the bunker.
He was patrolling
other areas out there.
Now, all of a sudden
he sees this light.
And as it got
lower and lower, he
realized there was a
shape to the light.
And it was a flying
saucer, as he described
it, a round-shaped disk.
And it landed directly in
front of this alarm area.
>> Why would a extraterrestrial
be interested in any nuclear
or biostorage units?
>> Well, probably
for a lot of reasons.
So the security
guard approached.
He drove up.
He's in a pickup truck.
He drives up and parks.
Now, a little background
on the security guard--
he was retired from
the United States Army.
He was a Vietnam veteran.
This is 1980.
So he had been in Vietnam.
He was a door gunner
on a helicopter,
and then he was also a ground
soldier, just infantry.
And then he got out and been
with Sandia for 10 or 11 years.
>> So he knew
aircraft very well.
>> He knew aircraft very well
and he knew helicopters very
well because he flew
in them in Vietnam.
So he saw this, and he
realized it's not a helicopter.
He thought, well, maybe
it's an experimental craft
that somebody, somebody
that's using this test range
is flying, and maybe
it accidentally landed.
Maybe it was trouble.
Maybe it was supposed to land
in another area, test range.
Because remember, there's
thousands of acres
of the test range out there.
It isn't that--
>> It's enormous.
>> Yeah.
So he's trying to
call on a radio,
and his radio doesn't work.
There's nothing but static jam.
And then, all of a
sudden, the engine
shuts off on his pickup truck.
So then he had a
shotgun and a handgun.
So he got his shotgun out,
and he got out of his vehicle.
And he just watched.
He didn't know what this
thing was going to do.
He still thought, all the
time during this time period,
he still thought it was
some experimental craft.
>> Was it Sandia security or
Kirtland Air Force security?
>> This is Sandia security.
>> And he couldn't do
anything because he had no
communication.
>> Right.
He had no communications, no way
of notifying his command center
or anyone else.
>> Wow.
>> He used tactics.
He moved away from
the pickup truck.
He thought, well, OK, if
this isn't an Air Force test
vehicle, if it's an
extraterrestrial or maybe
a Soviet, they're going to try
to destroy my vehicle first.
So he moves away from
that, and there's
another utility building
some distance away from him
that housed--
it was a water pump and a
building, a concrete building.
So he ran over to
that and stood there.
And all of a sudden, the
bottom of this flying saucer
opened up.
He said, it was just
like an egg that opened,
and the stairs came down.
And then, these two
entities came down.
He said, they floated.
They didn't walk.
And then he realized,
this is not conventional,
and this is not terrestrial.
It's got to be extraterrestrial.
Because he's looking
at these two entities
that are very small.
He'd say, probably 4
foot, with huge heads.
Or he thought, first,
they were heads,
but as they started
getting closer to him,
he realized they were helmets.
And they had a breathing
apparatus that ran around
to tanks on its back.
They had these strange-looking
hands, either that,
or he thought maybe
they were gloves
that rotated 360 degrees.
>> Wow.
>> And then he thought,
as they moved towards him,
his first thought
was they were robots.
>> Right.
>> He said, the first thing
I thought of, was "Lost
in Space," that robot in "Lost
in Space," where they could--
he thought, well--
then, he started
thinking, OK, if
they're robots, maybe
it is an Air Force project.
And they're using
robots as pilots.
>> Well, he must have been
very close to get such detailed
information by looking.
I mean, was he--
>> He was about 200 feet.
>> 200 feet, OK.
That's close.
>> But the two entities
were moving towards him.
They knew he was there.
I mean, even though
he was hiding,
they knew he was there
somehow because they
kept moving towards him.
So he realized, well, I
have to defend myself.
I have to defend what--
I have to do my job.
So he chambered a
round in his shotgun,
and it was an 870 Remington,
a 12-gauge shotgun.
And he had four
slugs in the shotgun.
So he pointed it at
the two entities,
and he yelled, stop,
halt. I'm security.
They did.
They stopped.
And they seemed more
concerned with that pickup.
One of them, then--
he said, floating.
They didn't walk-- over
towards his pickup.
But they didn't approach
him any farther.
>> Were they far off the ground
or just even with the ground
almost with their feet?
You said, they levitated
towards his vehicle.
>> He said floated.
And they were maybe a foot off
the ground, I think, he said.
Anyways, he didn't feel a threat
any longer because the entity
wasn't moving towards him.
He was concerned that
what they were going
to do to the pickup truck.
Although, it's the Sandia
National Laboratories pickup.
He just thought,
well, what are they
going to do with this pickup?
But the other end, you
went over, and kind of
moved around it.
He couldn't really see
everything it was doing.
But the other one kept
watching its partner.
And eventually, the
other one turned around.
And he turned around--
and this is why
the security guard
kept thinking it was a robot.
It turned around
mechanically, not
like a human would do, and
moved back towards the craft.
But as it got towards the craft,
it veered more to the right
and went right to the
front of the bunker.
Now, he realized, I
have to do something
because I'm responsible
for protecting this,
so I got to do something.
Even though I can't
radio anybody,
I can't radio a supervisor.
I can't radio for assistance.
And he kept reiterating to
me during the interviews,
you know, I've been in Vietnam.
I've been in tight situations.
I've been in combat.
This is entirely
different, he said.
This is something that, I'm
dealing with unknowns here.
In Vietnam, I was dealing
with enemy soldiers.
Here, I don't know
what these things are.
If they're robots,
can I harm him?
Can I shoot him?
But the next thing he know,
the bunker doors are open.
And he said, it
happened in a flash.
He said, normally,
it would take--
actually, these bunkers, it
would take a time period.
It can go from seven
minutes up to 15 minutes.
>> That's right.
>> Once you start
to open these doors.
And so, he knew this, and
he knew the procedures.
But all of a sudden,
this door opened,
the two heavy
metal doors opened.
And so, then he started moving.
He moved around
his pickup truck.
He lost track of
the second entity.
He didn't know where it was.
But it wasn't at the
pickup because he
moved around the pickup, and
he moved towards the bunker.
As he moved towards the
bunker, he started shaking.
His body started shaking
as if his legs weighed
a thousand pounds each.
He dropped the shotgun.
He couldn't hold it.
He realized, now,
I'm in trouble.
I don't know what
they're doing to me.
Now, I'm in trouble.
So he was just frozen there.
And he watched them
go in, both of them,
but he couldn't do anything.
And so, they were
only in there for,
he said, just maybe
10 or 15 seconds.
And they came out.
And when they came out, they
moved to the spaceship--
to the flying saucer.
He called it a spaceship.
And the doors closed on its
own, which is not possible,
he thought.
But once they got to the
craft, he could relax.
He immediately
picked up a shotgun.
And by the time he got himself
in order, the craft took off.
He went back to
his pickup truck.
It took off, but it
hovered above the ground,
somewhere away from
the pickup truck.
But as the engine
came back on, and he
was able to use the radio.
And as he started hearing a
radio, they were calling him.
They were trying to call him and
giving him a security status.
And he said, I have a
major problem out here.
And he didn't say
he was in trouble.
He just said, I have a
major problem out here,
and I need a supervisor.
And I need another patrol.
And they said, other
units are responding.
And in fact, they
sent what they would
consider their assault
team or a six-man,
called quick reaction team.
They were already
responding, including
some of the security policemen.
They called them security
alert team from Manzano
was going out there
to try to help.
And from Manzano
base to this bunker
is probably 3 and
1/2 miles or so.
Well, when the
calvary showed up,
he doesn't know what
to tell anybody.
What are they going to believe?
So when they took him
back-- they relieved him,
and he took him
back to the office.
And he tells the story
to his supervisor.
One of the security
supervisors is Russell Douglas
was his name.
And Russ listened
to him intently
and immediately notified OSI.
And I was the on-call
agent that night.
And this was like
4:00 in the morning.
By the time everything.
So they called me.
They said, we got a situation.
So I went out to
Sandia Security Office,
and the guard was there.
And Russ told me what happened.
And I said, OK, is
he hurt, injured?
No.
He said, he's been checked
by one of our medics.
He didn't seem to be
injured in any way.
He's a little concerned about
what happened, and I said,
what about radiation?
And he said, we didn't
check him for that.
Maybe we should.
I said, I think we should.
So anyways, they got
people in to do that.
And then I walked in,
and I identified myself.
And I said, I just want
to know what happened.
And he told me.
That's the story
I just told you.
He told me the story.
And I said, did you
fire your shotgun at it?
No, I couldn't.
I would have.
I probably should have
stayed back farther
because, as I got
closer, I was frozen.
I don't know how they did it.
I said, OK.
And I said, did you black out?
No, no, I never blacked out.
He said, I just was frozen.
I couldn't move.
It was like, my body
weighed thousands of pounds.
I couldn't move.
I said, did they come
over to you, touch you?
No.
>> And he's been through a war,
so he wouldn't just freeze up
because of fear.
It must've been some
energetic field,
if you want to talk about that.
>> That's what we--
now, this went on,
this investigation
went for a long time.
Because the teams
that got there went in
to check on the material
that's inside that bunker.
And as they brought this
stuff up, it's missing.
There's nothing there.
So they stole-- it
wasn't a nuclear weapon.
It was nuclear
material for a weapon,
but it was safeguarded,
like a nuclear weapon.
Anyways, it was missing.
Well, while I was in
this interview with him,
Russ comes to the door, and
he motions for me to come out.
And I go out, and he said, the
material inside that bunker
is missing.
Well, I didn't know what
was in at that time.
I said, well, what is it?
Nuclear weapon?
He said, no, it's
nuclear material.
He said, I can tell you.
I'll give you a list of it.
It's classified.
And I said, yeah, I need to--
I don't know what it is.
Show it.
So he gives me a list of the
things that were in there.
And there was a
package of materials
that they could take out and
put it in a nuclear weapon
to make it function.
It wasn't the nuclear material.
It was components.
They call them MC,
military components.
MC and there were numbers.
I said, all this classified?
Yeah, highly classified.
I said, well, what could
somebody do with it?
And he said, if they got
the nuclear material,
the fissionable material,
the uranium, or plutonium,
or cobalt, they
could make a bomb.
Of course, now, I have to
start making phone calls
and sending everything
up to headquarters
and getting my supervisor
involved in it.
In 1980, I'd been an OSI agent
for just a couple of years.
I'd been briefed in a lot
of different programs.
I knew about UFOs.
I mean, I'd been briefed in that
because of the Paul Bennewitz
case.
And so, I thought,
this is legitimate.
And as I went back in the
room, I asked security,
you need water or something?
No, no, no, I'm good.
He said, do you believe me?
I said, I believe you.
Yeah, I believe you.
I believe you,
something happened.
>> Do you think maybe
they took this stuff,
and then it was to prevent us
from utilizing it in a nuclear
warhead?
>> That thought crossed a number
of people's minds is that they
were trying to prevent
something from happening.
And maybe they didn't
understand everything
about our nuclear weapons
or nuclear materials,
so they were going to, maybe,
analyze it and determine
it could be used for war-making
or something like that,
and they didn't
want that to happen.
That's just a guess
on our part because we
don't know how aliens think.
I told him, I said, the material
inside a bunker is missing.
He said, I'm going to get fired.
And I said, don't worry about
anything like that right now.
I said, you did your job.
He said, I tried.
They froze me.
He said, but I don't know
how I am going to prove that.
Because people are going
to think I'm a coward,
and I didn't try to shoot them.
My responsibility is
guarding that material,
and I didn't do that.
So we're not concerned
about that quite yet.
We're concerned about
material, where it went.
He said, it went in that
spacecraft in outer space.
He gave me really a
detailed description,
and he actually was
able to sketch what
these entities looked like.
And what he sketched, I
wish I had them here now.
They were all classified
in Washington.
But they look like
little space people
that you would see
in space shows.
>> Like a pop culture type.
>> Yeah, like a pop culture.
They had helmets-- huge helmets.
He said, he didn't
know, if it was
because they needed
an environmental air
or something inside that, or
if their heads were that big.
He couldn't determine that.
Or if it was just a robot.
But I said, I confronted
him with this.
I said, you said that the
helmet was big with a tube.
>> Yeah, and respirators
or something.
>> He said, yeah.
I said, well, if it
was a robot, they
wouldn't need to breathe air.
And he thought, oh,
yeah, that's right.
So they must have been real.
He says, it must have
been extraterrestrial.
I say, yeah, probably were.
Now, at that time
in my career, I
hadn't been briefed in all
the different extraterrestrial
races or anything like that.
So we continued.
He gave us a description,
and that was it.
And I said, well, you go
home and get some sleep.
And we'll continue it
at some other time.
>> Was it happening at
any other facilities,
any other bases
that we controlled?
>> Yes.
>> There were at the same time?
>> There were other cases that
happened during that same time
period.
But what's interesting,
we were going
to setup another interview
with the security guard.
And Russ called me and
said, can you come over?
I got some additional
information.
I'm not going to
share on the phone.
I said, sure.
So I drive over to his office,
and I said, what do you got?
He said, another security guard,
same thing happened to him.
I said, when?
It's about two
weeks ago, he said.
But he shot him.
He fired his shotgun at him.
I said, well, OK,
did he do a report?
No, he's just told us this now.
He covered it up.
And it was a different bunker.
It wasn't the same bunker.
And it had nuclear
material in it.
As these two entities
got out, and he
described in exactly the same
way as the other security guard
did.
He fired a shotgun.
Four slugs he had.
There's so many
slugs in the shotgun.
He fired all four at him.
And the bullets
just-- the slugs.
They were shotgun slugs.
They just seemed to dissipate,
as they never hit him.
They just kind of dissipate.
But it got their
attention to a point
where it pulled the shotgun
away from his hands,
and it fell on the ground.
And then he backed up,
they went into this bunker,
came back out, did the same
exact thing, and flew away.
Well, he went over
and got the shotgun,
and he replaced the
slugs with his own slugs
and never reported it.
>> Did they go out and
do another investigation
of the area and find anything?
>> Exactly.
We went out there.
But this was several weeks--
>> Yes, of course.
>> --before, so there wasn't
any evidence out there.
But he had it in a bag.
He had the spent shotgun shells
in the bag that he gave to me.
He said, those are the ones that
were the Sandia issued to me.
And I put mine.
I know I'm going to
get fired for it,
but I know so-and-so,
the other security guard,
and I want to report that
it happened to me, too.
I said, well, why
didn't you report it?
He said, I was scared
to death to report.
Nobody's going to believe me.
He said, plus, I shot my
shotgun, and nothing happened.
I don't even know
where those slugs went.
We can't find them.
I went over and
looked around it.
It maybe just absorbed
into the bodies.
Now, he never described
them as robots.
He described them as real
creatures or real entities.
And then he also said,
he heard them speaking.
They were speaking
like they were
yelling at each other,
high-pitched voices, back
and forth.
Well, the other guard never
never heard any kind of voices.
>> Did he recognize
that language?
>> No.
He said, it was just screaming.
That's basically
what he told me.
But there were different
pitches from one to the other.
So he realized, one had a
different pitch in its voice
than the other.
But he could hear it.
And as if they
were communicating
to do whatever they were doing.
>> Wasn't there other witnesses
that you said earlier,
who was called in
on the first one.
Was there any witnesses
on the second one?
>> The incident
happened, I think,
it was four weeks earlier.
Security police at Manzano saw
another light coming to Canyon,
but never reported it.
Didn't know what it was, thought
it was just a helicopter.
We interviewed those
security policemen later.
They said, well, we've
seen a lot of lights
out there, a lot of helicopters.
There's training out
there all the time.
The Pararescue school, Air
Force Pararescue school,
they do training out there.
We don't think anything of it.
We saw it that particular
night, which we identified
from the second security guard.
And plus, they have,
on top of the mountain,
they have a camera,
a long-range--
it's called a long-range
scanner camera.
But it only records things
for a 24-hour period.
So you can't go back and look
beyond the 24-- it erases it.
It only has a--
this is 1980 technology, so
they didn't have the hard drives
that could store any.
However, when I first
learned about it--
I didn't, but our tech technical
people knew about the camera.
So the first incident
that we investigated,
we got the footage on that.
We got the footage.
However, the camera only
goes in one direction.
It doesn't point down.
So all you see is this
thing coming in and land,
and you can't see anything else
that's happening in the ground.
>> It's a fixed horizon.
>> Exactly.
But what they did
was, they took frames,
and they actually were able
to look at, and identify,
and take a frame picture of
that saucer-shaped craft.
And when it went
up to headquarters,
they identified it.
Although, I never
was told because,
at the ground level, my level,
I didn't have a need to know.
But in headquarters knew
exactly what particular entity.
>> So they knew what race.
They obviously seen this
craft before and compared it
to, maybe, other incidences.
Did you ever find
out ever what it was?
>> It took me some time.
But eventually, I
found out that it
was a craft flown by the Grays.
But the identities of the
operators of the Grays' craft
that have been seen and
witnessed and investigated
a number of different occasions
around military installations
in the past, didn't
fit the entities
that came out of the craft.
So they thought, maybe, they
were, in fact, some kind
of robots or maybe hybrids.
>> Programmed life forms maybe.
>> Programmed life forms.
Yeah, exactly.
But I didn't know any more
than that, about that.
But ironically, during that
same time period in 1980,
there were a number
of other incidents
that happened at
military installations,
missile sites around
the United States,
exactly the same
thing, including
one particular incident, which
is still highly classified,
where they actually
took a nuclear weapon.
They took a W-28 a
warhead, and a W-28 warhead
was a one megaton
gravity-dropped bomb.
It was missing out of a storage
area at a strategic air command
based in the United States.
So these things have
happened in the past.
>> Are these security forces
briefed on extraterrestrial
activity, and the beings, and
entities, and also the craft?
>> Well, they weren't until
all these incidents started
happening.
And then, they
started being briefed.
They were given a
classified briefing
on a need-to-know basis.
If they were guarding a
nuclear weapon storage
area or a missile site,
the security policemen
operate in the field, the
missile fields, launch control
facilities, these
security policemen
were given a classified
briefing that they may encounter
something unknown
an unknown aircraft,
flying in with unknown entities
on board or they use creatures.
And they were to follow
these set procedures.
And there were set procedures,
but they were in a case,
and they were only to be broken
open if they were responding
to an incident like that.
And the procedures
were classified,
but they were in
this case that they
would break open and pull out
if they actually ever responded.
And this came in the
late '70s and early '80s.
>> Yeah.
I know today, for a
fact, that they now
have specific protocols
for those individuals that
are guarding sensitive
materials of what
to do in case of
the event of, I'll
just say, as you said
earlier, they do still
use those terms of creatures,
as they did in the early '80s,
if they were actually
approached or if they seen this.
>> Yeah.
We had a Lieutenant Colonel
Ronald Gray give a presentation
at a UFO convention about
this a few years ago,
and he talked about what
the new procedures are now,
compared to years ago.
They were never briefed.
And so they were never
able to function or know
what to do if some
ET aircraft landed.
But now, as you
said, there are set
procedures that are classified
of what to do, step-by-step.
>> Could you share with us on
any of these protocols from
back then?
>> Yeah.
Some of the protocols-- and I
don't know every one of them,
and I think there were
something like 10 or 12 of them.
And there were secondary ones.
If you do this, and that
doesn't work, you do this.
And so, the first one is, do
not fire at the craft nor fire
at the creature or the entities.
>> Correct.
>> I'll use entities here, but
the words in this was creature.
Secondly, do not
approach the craft.
Stay away from the
craft, and never, never
approach the entities.
Number three, immediately
notify central security control
or launch control
facility dispatch.
And it was watch,
observe, and detect,
whether there's any other
crafts flying around.
If that's the only
one on the ground, OK.
But keep a lookout for any
other crafts flying in the area,
maybe on a recon mission
or something like that.
And then one of them, I can
remember is, don't be fooled.
Don't be fooled by a possibility
that a Soviet or this could be
a Soviet-staged
event or a hostile--
I think it was a
hostile country event.
And during that time
period, it would
have been the Soviets
or the Chinese,
but primarily, we were
concerned about the Russians.
And make sure it wasn't staged
by or it was an exercise.
Never shoot your
exercise opponents,
something to that effect.
So those things, I can
remember that was on there.
Now, there were many others.
And as I understand,
there is even--
if you had to shoot,
you had to shoot
in a certain area the entity's
body and things like that.
I think one of them was,
if you had to engage,
you would shoot at any
environmental protection
that this entity had, such as
breathing apparatus, disrupt
the breathing apparatus, or
some other environmental control
first rather than trying
to shoot into the body.
Disable the entity.
>> That makes sense.
>> Yeah.
Rick, do you think there was
a message in all of this?
>> Oh, absolutely.
There was a message.
I don't think, at
the time, I was
in a position to determine
what that message was.
But there were supervisors
above me, many people above me.
>> Different opinions, probably.
>> Different opinions,
trying to figure out why.
Why are they only targeting
nuclear weapons storage areas
or nuclear weapon
complexes or missile silos?
Now my personal opinion is,
what we talked about earlier.
I think that they don't know
everything about us, maybe,
but they know that we
have this nuclear weapon.
They've seen it tested.
They probably watched testing
at the Nevada test site
or saw what we were doing
underground at the Nevada test
site after 1962.
I think the
moratorium was in '62.
They went from above ground.
They probably were
in the Pacific,
watching us detonate
nuclear weapons.
They knew they were harmful.
And maybe they were concerned
about us as a society,
and they decided, OK,
let's steal this stuff
and keep them from making more.
I mean, in reality, that
probably sounds pretty
farfetched because we have so
many different nuclear weapons
storage areas and not just
us, but the Soviet Union
had thousands.
China had thousands,
even France,
and Britain had thousands.
And what do we do?
How do you handle
something like that.
Or how do you
determine, OK, what's
our next course of
action because they're
stealing our nuclear weapons?
>> With working with all the
scientists that you have worked
with and everyone in
intelligence, do you believe,
in any way, that
maybe we're affecting
the extraterrestrials,
and their race,
and their homes with
our nuclear activity.
>> I do, and they do.
I spoke to many scientists at
Sandia National Laboratories
during this time period.
And their concern was that
maybe we, our country--
we were only talking
about the United States--
during our thousands
of nuclear tests,
have disrupted something that we
don't realize that we're doing,
something in the atmosphere,
something that's traveling away
from Earth to their
planet, or something
that they have
here on our planet
that they're trying
to safeguard.
Now, that presents an entirely
another subject matter.
OK, for instance, if the
ETs have a base here,
whether it be under the ocean,
underground, in Antarctica,
or someplace.
And these nuclear weapons
testing that we're doing
or we did then is
disrupting their home
or disrupting their
base on planet Earth.
>> Rick, this was
a great episode.
I love doing this
interview with you
because I was stationed
at Kirtland, as you know,
and it brings back
a lot of memories.
Thanks for being on the show.
>> Great to be here, Emery.
Thank you.
>> I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.